---
layout: default
title:  "Blog 11"
date:   2020-11-20 15:37:12 -0700
categories: jekyll update
permalink: /jekyll/update/2020/11/20/blog-11.html
---

## macOS 11 Big Sur

I had been patiently waiting to upgrade to the new MacOS operating system since it was announced in June 2020. I also did not immediately
 
download and participate in the Developer or public betas of the software, instead waiting for the release candidate or final version. On November 

12th 2020 10 am PST, macOS 11 was supposed to be available for download but this was just the beginning of many glitches to come.

Upon looking in the App Store for the new software, it was not readily accessible at 10am. While performing a Google search I was able to find a 

Direct web link that then pulled up the appropriate software download in the App Store. Once the download commenced it was taking a very long 

time to make much progress on the download, surely due to the massive server demand. Once the download got three quarters complete the first

problems began to surface. After more than half way into the download there began a series of install failures. This activity continued over and

Over again no matter how many download attempts. Trying again in the late afternoon still yielded no success with the install errors still occurring.

In my impatience my next thought was just to bypass the official final version and opt for the gold master or the final release candidate to update

from at a later time. In hindsight this was probably not the best idea. After backing up my entire machine I did a google search for the most 

Recent Big Sur beta profile. From prior experience the Gold Master or Release Candidate is essentially the same software version as the final 

release or very close to it. Once the beta profile was installed, I rebooted the Mac to initiate the beta install. After around 30 minutes the install

completed. I immediately checked the software version upon login and in the About This Mac displays the version macOS Big Sur 11.0.1 (20B28).

Now that I have successfully have a seemingly stable version of the new OS I go to settings and Software Update to remove my Mac from the beta

Program so that I can make sure I either remain on the current software build or receive a minor update to the final release version. Selecting 

details from Software Update then Restore Defaults removes the Mac from the beta program. I restart the machine. Now going back to the 

Software Update to see if a new version is available returns an update around the size of 2.5GB. It was around this time that I noticed a general 

Sluggishness in the system and checking any apps would simply hesitate, not open or freeze entirely. Rebooting did not fix the issue. Much later

on in the day after searching various Mac forums I discovered that there were Apple’s Big Sur rollout created multiple server issues that affected

Gatekeeper security. Gatekeeper had issues contacting security servers for app verification, which affected applications launching and general 

system stability. Once Apple addressed their various server issues, MacOS system updating could continue. After installing the supplemental Big

Sur update the new version was changed to macOS Big Sur 11.0.1 (20B29) which was the most current, non beta build. When checking the 

software update again though there seemed to somehow be an issue with the Mac still pulling in beta updates even though the machine had been

Removed from the beta program. I had do look online and do more troubleshooting to figure out how to resolve this. 

The solution was to use seed util commands in terminal and not the standard option of system preferences. 

The first step was the re-enroll the machine back into the beta program, while checking the software update status 

`sudo /System/Library/PrivateFrameworks/Seeding.framework/Versions/A/Resources/seedutil enroll DeveloperSeed`

With the update status now showing beta participation, the second step is to remove the beta enrollment for the final time

`sudo /System/Library/PrivateFrameworks/Seeding.framework/Versions/A/Resources/seedutil unenroll`

Now the Mac is showing as up to date, macOS Big Sur version 11.0.1, and the machine is not enrolled in any beta program!  
