---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3"
date:   2020-09-25 15:37:12 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

                                                    iTerm2


A  command line tool that can be beneficial for Mac users is iTerm2. This free GPL v2 application works as an emulator for Terminal.

This tool offers additional features and functionality for MacOS versions 10.12 and above. For frequent Terminal usage the added abilities are especially handy.

There are many configurations and settings but some of the main abilities of iTerm2 are:



Split Panes to display multiple tabbed sessions, the active session is highlighted while the others are dimmed. 
/Users/lp92w/Desktop/Iterm/Split Panes.png



Autocomplete will begin to show any term that has appeared in a session window once the Cmd; keys are pressed and text entered. 
/Users/lp92w/Desktop/Iterm/autocomplete .png



Paste History gives a complete list to recently copied and pasted text.
/Users/lp92w/Desktop/Iterm/Paste History.png



Once instant replay is evoked from menu the application sessions are recorded in order to be reviewed at a later time.
/Users/lp92w/Desktop/Iterm/Instant Replay.png



Expose tabs allows the application to bring up all tabs in one view screen so that they can all be searched at once. 
/Users/lp92w/Desktop/Iterm/Expose 1.png



Timestamps can be evoked from the view menu to show when a line was changed last and can be helpful to determine exactly when an operation finished
/Users/lp92w/Desktop/Iterm/Timestamps 2.png
