---
layout: default
title:  "Blog 12"
date:   2020-12-04 15:37:12 -0700
categories: jekyll update
permalink: /jekyll/update/2020/12/04/blog-12.html
---

## Making a bootable Big Sur Installer

Making a backup installer for MacOS has normally been my standard practice for the new OS versions. By placing the install files on bootable media such as a usb flash drive upgrading other machines is an easy task. One other benefit of having the install media saved is that OS upgrades for additional machines can be done when download servers are down or running very slowly. Creating a bootable usb installer can be done via several free online applications or done manually in terminal. Apple also provides a [support](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201372) article detailing the creation process for several macOS versions.

## Download Install Files

Head to the App Store in macOS search for Big Sur in utilities, click get to re-download the Big Sur installer. The Software Update mechanism is triggered and the install should begin to download. The install file will go to the applications folder. The current name of the usb drive can be swapped for `MyVolume`.

## Create USB Media

With the install file downloaded the next step is to plug in a decent sized usb flash drive of 16GB or more. Terminal will be used to complete the process.

In macOS Big Sur the terminal command used is

`sudo /Applications/Install\ macOS\ Big\ Sur.app/Contents/Resources/createinstallmedia --volume /Volumes/MyVolume`

After a admin password prompt the usb media will be erased following a copy of the install files to the flash drive.

The creation process will take several minutes to finish and will display a percent status in terminal window.

Once successfully completed the terminal window will say done and the usb drive will have the same title as the OS version.


  
