---
layout: default
title:  "Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-13 15:37:12 -0700
categories: jekyll update
permalink: /jekyll/update/2020/11/13/blog-10.html
---

## GitHub Pages Theme Change

This is actually the second theme change for the Jekyll/GitHub Pages for my Blog. In my initial change I was looking for more styling options beyond the standard minima theme. The theme chosen for the first change was the GitHub Pages supported modernist. While this theme was sufficient styling wise, I did not notice until after several Blog submissions that the formatting wasn't ideal. Specifically, the text when highighted either as a single or group block of text displayed oddly. The single word text looked like italics when emphasized and the grouped text had large and irregular highlighting that spanned the width of the page. This was not the best choice in my opinion for neat and legible posting. I managed to make the desired changes after resolving a few issues.


## Modify Files

After lots of searching online for what was needed for the theme change I changed into the github repository and docs directory to get the `Gemfile`.

Once inside the file I add a third gem, after `jekyll-theme-modernist` for the new `jekyll-theme-cayman`. After a save, run `bundle install` for new gem.

The install for the new theme was successful and now to head into the next file `_config.yml`. Changed build setting from previous theme to `jekyll-theme-cayman`.

The change to `_config.yml` was not certain since running `bundle exec jekyll serve` fails. Pushing changes up from local is also not working.

More troubleshooting online reveals that within the `Gemfile`, the version needs to be downgraded from 4.0 to 3.3 in order for the non default themes to work.

Made changes to the `Gemfile` and reloaded but theme is still not displaying. Back inside `Gemfile` added gem `kramdown-parser-gfm`.

With reloading gems to try changes, theme is still not functioning. Looked at GitHub Pages documentation to find structure of default `minima` layout.

Discovered that the standard GitHub Pages theme has a layout for home, page, post. Many non default themes only have a `default.html` layout.

Several files will need to be edited to set `layouts` to `default`, this includes `index.markdown` `about.md` and all blog post headings within the `_posts` folder.

Finally after making all the required layout settings and pushing the changes up to GitHub from local, the new theme displays properly.



 
