---
layout: default
title:  "Blog 15"
date:   2021-03-05 15:37:12 -0700
categories: jekyll update
permalink: /jekyll/update/2021/03/05/blog-15.html
---

## MailTrackerBlocker

I was tempted recently to sign up for HEY’s subscription email service primarily to get the pixel blocking feature. Upon discovering that there was a viable free option I could use and not have to start from scratch or forward emails to an entirely new service, I was thrilled. The email pixel implementation that developer Basecamp uses in their HEY service essentially blocks the invisible HTML email tracking pixels from working. I really only had a vague understanding of how these pixels work and didn’t know how pervasive they currently are today. It seems many companies use them in tandem with their marketing campaigns. I also did not know that these pixels can be used to determine when and how many times a particular email is opened, which device is used to view the email, as well as the coarse location of the device when the email is viewed. MailTrackerBlocker is from a free open source project. The mail bundle plugin is available for Apple Mail in macOS. 


## Additional Info

From the MailTrackerBlocker [page](https://apparition47.github.io/MailTrackerBlocker/) there is an option to install from either a .pkg package or via the recommended method, a `brew install apparition47/tap/mailtrackerblocker`


## Configuration

After the Brew install head to the mail applications preferences window. In General, click manage plugins at the bottom. Check the box for the MailTracker plugin, apply and restart mail. Keep in mind that disabling remote images (via viewing in settings) in mail messages is no longer needed to prevent image pixels from loading while the plugin is enabled.
