---
layout: default
title:  "Blog 14"
date:   2021-02-26 15:37:12 -0700
categories: jekyll update
permalink: /jekyll/update/2021/02/26/blog-14.html
---

## M1 Mac Virtual Machine

Transitioning to a new M1 Macbook has been an exciting and slightly terrifying proposition. This is mainly due to the fact that the new Apple M1 Silicon uses an Arm64 chip instead of the traditional Intel x86 architecture. The Rosetta 2 translation software that Apple provides on the new machines works well and is mostly seamless but does not fix compatibility for every development scenario. Specifically, environments such as Docker and most virtual machine options are not yet fully working. However there are some operational developer preview software versions available to test. I have been keeping close watch of any information on upcoming M1 software updates. There is also a type of user generated M1 site that details current application readiness, whether it be native, Rosetta 2 only, both or no [support](https://isapplesiliconready.com/) at all. While Docker has been rather unstable in its current beta form and VMware Fusion is not yet working there is an early preview from Parallels to get Linux running.

## Download Parallels Desktop for Mac

The good news is that Parallels has been actively working on a new version of its Mac virtual machine software since the new M1 computers were announced. The bad news is that to run either a very specific ARM flavor of Windows or a Linux iso, it must be ARM64 only. Currently there is no way for X86 images to work on M1 based machines. The [technical preview](https://www.parallels.com/blogs/parallels-desktop-apple-silicon-mac/) is available to download.


## Download Ubuntu 20.04 or 21.04

The only two Ubuntu versions I was able to locate that had 64-bit ARM desktop versions were 20.04 Focal Fossa and 21.04 Hirsute Hippo. There are older Ubuntu ARM builds but from what I could find they were all either for servers or raspberry pi environments.
